README.md, before:

**WebRTC is a free, open software project** that provides browsers and mobile
applications with Real-Time Communications (RTC) capabilities via simple APIs.
The WebRTC components have been optimized to best serve this purpose.

**Our mission:** To enable rich, high-quality RTC applications to be
developed for the browser, mobile platforms, and IoT devices, and allow them
all to communicate via a common set of protocols.

The WebRTC initiative is a project supported by Google, Mozilla and Opera,
amongst others.

### Development

See http://www.webrtc.org/native-code/development for instructions on how to get
started developing with the native code.

### More info

 * Official web site: http://www.webrtc.org
 * Master source code repo: https://webrtc.googlesource.com/src
 * Samples and reference apps: https://github.com/webrtc
 * Mailing list: http://groups.google.com/group/discuss-webrtc
 * Continuous build: http://build.chromium.org/p/client.webrtc
 * [Coding style guide](style-guide.md)
 * [Code of conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)

Commit message:

Tell users where they can find the native API headers
The listed directories are the same as in PRESUBMIT.py, which
was previously the only way to look this stuff up...

BUG=webrtc:8445
NOTRY=true

Change-Id: I218c91e554f3163ae13fc75b9cbf76b42f70624e
Reviewed-on: https://webrtc-review.googlesource.com/16432
Commit-Queue: Karl Wiberg <kwiberg@webrtc.org>
Reviewed-by: Fredrik Solenberg <solenberg@webrtc.org>
Reviewed-by: Mirko Bonadei <mbonadei@webrtc.org>
Reviewed-by: Niels Moller <nisse@webrtc.org>
Cr-Commit-Position: refs/heads/master@{#20670}

README.md, after:

**WebRTC is a free, open software project** that provides browsers and mobile
applications with Real-Time Communications (RTC) capabilities via simple APIs.
The WebRTC components have been optimized to best serve this purpose.

**Our mission:** To enable rich, high-quality RTC applications to be
developed for the browser, mobile platforms, and IoT devices, and allow them
all to communicate via a common set of protocols.

The WebRTC initiative is a project supported by Google, Mozilla and Opera,
amongst others.

### Development

See http://www.webrtc.org/native-code/development for instructions on how to get
started developing with the native code.

[Authoritative list](native-api.md) of directories that contain the
native API header files.

### More info

 * Official web site: http://www.webrtc.org
 * Master source code repo: https://webrtc.googlesource.com/src
 * Samples and reference apps: https://github.com/webrtc
 * Mailing list: http://groups.google.com/group/discuss-webrtc
 * Continuous build: http://build.chromium.org/p/client.webrtc
 * [Coding style guide](style-guide.md)
 * [Code of conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)
